# Logger Viewer - Design Document

## Overview

Enhance developper experience by providing a tool to view logs in a more user-friendly way.
The viewer will enable both post run and live log viewing.
The logs will be displayed in a table format with the ability to filter and sort the logs.
Searching a marking specific log, highlight rows containing specific text.

## Requirements

### Functional Requirements

- The viewer shall display logs in a table format.
- The viewer shall support filtering and sorting of logs.
- The viewer shall support searching and highlighting of logs.
- The viewer shall support live log viewing.
- The viewer shall support post run log viewing.

### Non-functional Requirements

- The viewer shall be responsive and user-friendly.
- The viewer shall be performant and scalable.
- The viewer shall be secure and reliable.

## Architecture

The viewer can be broken to four main parts:

- Front End: graphical interface can be either a web page or a desktop application.
- Back End: server that will serve the logs to the front end. It can be a simple REST API or a more complex service.
- Data Store: the logs will be stored in a database or a file system.
- Fetcher: a service that will fetch the logs from the source and store them in the data store.

### Table Format

The viewer table columns can be configured using a config file that will describe the columns and their types.
The logs loaded with the viewer must be according to the supplyied configuration file.
The table should use pagination techniques to display the logs in a more user-friendly way.
Also the table should be refreshed periodcally or once a new logs are added to the data base.

### Filtering and Sorting

When user wish to filter logs by a column, all the logs should be filtered and not only the ones displayed in the current page.
The same goes for sorting, the sorting should be applied to all the logs and not only the ones displayed in the current page.
Sorting is not a must but it will be a nice to have feature, as usually the logs are sorted by time.

### Searching and Highlighting

The search feature should be able to search for a specific text in all the logs.
The expected behavior is to jump to this log location in the table and highlight the row.
The search can be both case sensitive and insensitive.
When user hits the search button for the second time, the search should jump to the next log containing the searched text.

Highlighting feature should let the user enter a text and the viewer will highlight all the rows containing this text.
Important to note that the highlighting should be removed when the user clears the text.

### Grafical Interface

On top of the interface window, there should be the title "Ultimate Logger Viewer".
On the left side there should be a pane with the following buttons:

- "Open" button to open a file or a database.
- "Refresh" button to refresh the logs.
- "Search" button to search for a specific text.
- 5 "Highlight" buttons to highlight rows containing a specific text, with a color box picker to change the color.
- "Filter" button to filter the logs.

## Data Model

The logs are generated by a source program or service and will be stored in a database or a file system.
The database should be light and fast, as the logs are usually huge and the viewer should be able to load them fast.
Each log is normally a string with a timestamp and a message.
It should easily maintain 100,000 logs and more.
